- JavaScript is dynamically typed language which means that datatypes of variables are determined by the value they hold at runtime. Unlike C/C++ where the datatype has to be known at compile time.
```Javascript
const myNumber = 3; // a number
const myString = "Hello, World" // a string
const myBoolean = true; // a boolean
```

### String interpolation
```js
var sum = 10;
console.log(`Sum is ${sum}`);
```

- In JavaScript, the Number type can be both a floating point number and an integer.
```Javascript

const myArray = [];                    // an array
const myObject = {};                  // an object

```

- On top of that, there are two special types called `undefined` and `null`.
- ==When a variable is used without first defining a value for it, it is equal to undefined.== For example:

```javascript
const newVariable;
console.log(newVariable); //prints undefined
```

- However, the `null` value is a different type of value, and is ==used when a variable should be marked as empty.== `undefined` can be used for this purpose, but it should not be used.

```javascript
const emptyVariable = null;
console.log(emptyVariable);
```


#### Advance 
1. **Truthy and Falsy Values**: In JavaScript, values are inherently either "truthy" or "falsy" when evaluated in a boolean context.
	- Basically, if the variable value is false, zero, empty, null, undefined, or Nan , it's falsy and the code within the if block is not run. **If the variable value is anything else, such as a number that is not zero, a non-empty string, an array, or an object, it's truthy and the code in the if block is run**.

3. **NaN (Not a Number)**: NaN is a special value representing a "Not-a-Number" result, typically returned when an arithmetic operation fails or when a function expecting a number receives a non-numeric value.

4. **Type Coercion**: Type coercion refers to the **automatic conversion of values from one data type to another, typically performed during operations or comparisons involving different data types**.

5. **Immutable vs. Mutable Types**: Understanding the difference between immutable types (like strings and numbers) and mutable types (like objects and arrays) is essential for effective programming, especially in terms of passing by reference or value.

By incorporating these additional points, your coverage of JavaScript data types and values would be more comprehensive.