#### Types of SQL commands
- DDL(data definition language)-> defining relation schema
	- CREATE-> create table, create view
	- ALTER TABLE
	- DROP
	- TRUNCATE-> remove all the tuples from the table
		- to delete only the entries in the table
	- RENAME
- DRL/DQL (data retrieval/Query language)
	- SELECT
- DML (data modification language)
	- INSERT
	- UPDATE
	- DELETE
- DCL (data control language)
	- GRANT
		- access priviliage to the DB
	- REVOKE
		- revoke user access privilages
- TCL (Transaction control language) -> to manage transactions done in the DB
	- TCL are atomic command
		- atomic means that a set of tasks will all be completed or none will be completed
	- START TRANSACTION
		- begin the transaction
	- COMMIT
		- apply the changes and end transaction
	- ROLLBACK
		- discard changes and end transaction
	- SAVEPOINT
		- checkout within the group of transactions in which to rollback
#### Managing DB(DDL)
- Creation of DB
	- CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS database-name;
	- USE database-name;
	- DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS database-name;
	- SHOW DATABASES; -> list all the dbs in the current server
	- SHOW TABLES; -> list all the tables in the current db

**DATA RETRIEVAL LANGUAGE (DRL)  ![ref1]**
1. **SELECT**
	1. Order of execution from RIGHT to LEFT.  
	2. Q. Can we use SELECT keyword without using FROM clause?  
		 Yes, using DUAL Tables.  
	3. Dual tables are dummy tables created by MySQL, help users to do certain obvious actions without referring to user defined tables. 
	4. SELECT now(); -> to get the server time
	5. SELECT ucase(); etc. 

2. **WHERE**
	1. Reduce rows based on given conditions. 
	2. E.g., SELECT \* FROM customer WHERE age > 18; 

3. **BETWEEN** 
	1. SELECT \* FROM customer WHERE age between 0 **AND** 100; 
	2. In the above e.g., 0 and 100 are inclusive. 

4. **IN** 
	1. Reduces **OR** conditions; 
	2. e.g., SELECT \*  FROM officers WHERE officer\_name IN (’Lakshay’,  Maharana Pratap’,  Deepika ); 

5. **AND/OR/NOT** 
	1. AND: WHERE cond1 AND cond2 
	2. OR: WHERE cond1 OR cond2 
	3. NOT: WHERE col\_name NOT IN (1,2,3,4); 

6. **IS NULL** 
	1\. e.g., SELECT \* FROM customer WHERE prime\_status is NULL; 

7. **Pattern Searching / Wildcard ( % ,  \_ )** 
	1. % , any number of character from 0 to n. Similar to  \*  asterisk in regex. 
	2. \_ , only one character. 
	3. SELECT \* FROM customer WHERE name **LIKE**  %p\_ ; 
8. **DISTINCT**

	```Mysql
	-- distinct key word
SELECT DISTINCT department FROM Workers;
	```
	
9. **ORDER BY** 

	1. Sorting in ascending order
		```MySQL
		SELECT * FROM Workers ORDER BY salary;
		```
	- Note: asc can be used at the end too, which is also the default.
	2. Sorting in descending order
		```Mysql
		SELECT * FROM Workers ORDER BY salary DESC;
		```


10. **GROUP BY** 
-  GROUP BY Clause is used to collect data from multiple records and group the result by one or more column.
- SELECT c1,c2,c3 FROM sample_table WHERE cond GROUP BY c1,c2,c3

	```Mysql
	-- GROUP BY
SELECT department FROM Workers GROUP BY department;
	```
- the output will be same as DISTINCT 

	```Mysql
	-- GROUP BY
SELECT department, COUNT(department) FROM Workers GROUP BY department;
	```
- this will give the departments and the number of entries with that department
- Aggregation functions
	1. COUNT() 
	``` MySQL
	-- Number of employees in each department
	SELECT department, COUNT(department) FROM Workers GROUP BY department;
	
	```

	1. SUM() 
	2. AVG() 
	```mysql
	-- AVG Salary per department
SELECT department, AVG(salary) FROM Workers GROUP BY department;
	```
	4. MIN() 
	5. MAX() 

**13. GROUP BY HAVING**

1. Out of the categories made by GROUP BY, we would like to know only particular thing (cond).
2. Similar to WHERE.
3. Select COUNT(cust\_id), country from customer GROUP BY country HAVING COUNT(cust\_id) > 50;
	```Mysql
	-- number of employees where number of employees are greater then 1
SELECT department, COUNT(department) FROM Workers GROUP BY department HAVING COUNT(department) > 1;
	```
	
1. WHERE vs HAVING
	1. Both have same function of filtering the row base on certain conditions.
	2. WHERE clause is used to filter the rows from the table based on specified condition
	3. HAVING clause is used to filter the rows from the groups based on the specified condition.
	4. HAVING is used after GROUP BY while WHERE is used before GROUP BY clause.
	5. If you are using HAVING, GROUP BY is necessary.
	6. WHERE can be used with SELECT, UPDATE & DELETE keywords while GROUP BY used with SELECT.
